Just as the Iliad and the Odyssey are now considered foundational works of western literature, so too were they revered in the classical and Hellenistic periods. The Iliad received an extraordinary amount of study, with scholars creating their own commentaries and editions. Three specific editors, Zenodotus, Aristophanes, and Aristarchus, who were heads of the library of Alexandria during the third and second centuries BC, worked extensively on the Iliad and created their own commentaries and editions. Their work was very influential in shaping the text of the Iliad that we have today. However, the editions of these editors are unfortunately not extant and have not been for quite some time.
 
 The Alexandrian editors’ editions of the Iliad are referenced constantly throughout the scholia in the Venetus A. Aristarchus’ name appears especially frequently in the scholia. His presence in the scholia of this tenth-century manuscript reflects over 1000 years of transmission of his work on Homer. This question, then, intends to trace back over 2000 years in order to reconstruct possibly pure Aristarchan material in the scholia. It is my goal to be able to determine the features which are associated with Aristarchan language and thereby create a model for determining with some confidence whether a scholion is Aristarchan or post-Aristarchan.
 
 To be able to label something as Aristarchan, I will examine specific words and patterns of language in the scholia, as well as occurrences of critical signs. My goal in this thesis is not to claim that I have found some magical indicator of what comments come from what editor. However, I intend to identify significant clusterings of features that, when occurring together, suggest from where a scholion does or does not derive. In order to be able to classify a scholion as Aristarchan or non-Aristarachan, it is necessary first to define what makes something Aristarchan. That is, what features, when considered together, represent a model of the Aristarchan category of scholia? 
 
Critical signs, as we know from Dindorf, are unique to Aristarchus. Because he included these signs in his own edition and they were transmitted along with the text, we can assume that the presence of a critical sign on a line indicates that a scholion on that same line is Aristarchan material.

The "hoti" formula refers to a common way of beginning a scholion. "ὅτι," meaning "because" is often the first word of a scholion wich is commenting on a line which has a critical sign on it. It is meant to explain the presence of the sign. Thus formula stands for "The sign is there because..." Because this word occurs so frequently with critical signs, it is likely that it was transmitted with the signs and is therefore Aristarchan.

An active form of the verb γράφω (to write) in the scholia is almost always governed by Zenodotus. That is, he is the only person who is said to write. Moreover, this formula of "Ζηνόδοτος γράφει" is one which commonly appears in hoti scholia. Because of the hoti scholia's link to Aristarchus, the presence of an active form of γράφω can also be considered an Aristarchan feature. 

A reference to Zenodotus can be an indicator of Aristarchan material. However, it depends on with what formula he is referenced. If it is "ὅτι Ζηνόδοτος..." then the scholion is likely to be Aristarchan. On the other hand, if his name appears in the form "παρὰ Ζηνοδότῳ," then we cannot assume that this is Aristarchan. This is because, as described in the analysis chapter, this formula does not appear to be associated with any critical signs. The same can be said about references to Aristophanes. The phrase "παρὰ Ἀριστοφάνει" also appears several times throughout the scholia, with no strong association with critical signs. 

The presence of Aristarchus' name himself is likely an indication that the scholion is post-Aristarchan. This is based on the assumption that Aristarchus was not writing in the third person and that the scribe was not putting an Aristarchan source into indirect discourse. 

The presence of a reference to a city edition in the scholia is likely a reference to post-Aristarchan material. As demonstrated in [this table](https://github.com/mwauke/seniorThesis/blob/master/data/cityEditions.md), when city editions are mentioned, editors names are also frequently mentioned along with them. Aristarchus himself is often cited, as well as the other editors, or even all three together. 

The presence of a post-Aristarchan scholar's name obviously indicates that the scholion is taken from a source that is later than Aristarchus. 

